Add migration guide for Uppy 3.x, Companion 4.x, and Robodog (#3913)
transloadit/uppy: website/src/docs/migration-guides.md

[ECMAScript Modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) (ESM).
On Uppy 2.x, we were shipping CommonJS.

If are already using ESM yourself, or are using the CDN builds, nothing changes for you!

If you are using CommonJS, you might need to add some tooling for everything to work, or you might
want to refactor your codebase to ESM – refer to
the [Pure ESM package](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c)
gist for added information and help on how to do that.

### Robodog is deprecated

Uppy is flexible and extensible through plugins. But the integration code could sometimes be daunting. This is what brought [Robodog](/docs/robodog/) to life. An alternative with the same features, but with a more ergonomic and minimal API.

But, it didn’t come with its own set of new problems:

* It tries to do the exact same, but it looks like a different product
* It’s confusing for users whether they want to use Robodog or Uppy directly.
* Documentation is scarce, and the trade offs are unclear
* It’s not marketed, you need to stumble on it in the docs.
* Extra maintenance burden
* Extra hosting effort and costs

> This has now led us to deprecating Robodog and embrace Uppy for its strong suits; modularity and flexibility. At the same time, we also introduced something to take away some repetitive integration code: [`@uppy/remote-sources`](/docs/remote-sources).

Author: What is better:

1. Keep the explanation here _and_ put it in the announcement blog post
2. Migration guide should be straightforward, we can link to the blog post for context

Reviewer: I like 2., both options are reasonable though.

To migrate from Robodog to Uppy plugins, go through the [list of plugins](/docs/plugins/) and install and use the ones you need.

### Smaller breaking changes

We also made a couple of changes which are technically breaking, but unlikely to be so for most users (making something internal private, for instance).

#### `@uppy/core`

> * Remove `AggregateError` polyfill
>   * reason: [should be polyfilled by the user](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/3532#discussion_r818602636)
>   * migrate: install a `AggregateError` polyfill or use `core-js`
> * Remove `reset()` method
>   * reason: it’s a duplicate of `cancelAll`, but with a less intention revealing name
>   * migrate: use `cancelAll`
> * Remove backwards compatible exports (static properties on `Uppy`). Exports, such as `debugLogger`, used to also be accesible on the `Uppy` export. This has now been removed.
>   * reason: transition to ESM
>   * migrate: import the `Uppy` class by default and/or use named exports for everything else.

Reviewer: Can we add `.` at the end of all sentences?
```suggestion
* Remove `AggregateError` polyfill.
  * reason: it's supported by most modern browsers, it [can be polyfilled by the user](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/3532#discussion_r818602636).
  * migrate: install a `AggregateError` polyfill or use `core-js`.
* Remove `reset()` method.
  * reason: it’s a duplicate of `cancelAll`, but with a less intention revealing name.
  * migrate: use `cancelAll`.
* Remove backwards compatible exports (static properties on `Uppy`). Exports, such as `debugLogger`, used to also be accesible on the `Uppy` export. This has now been removed.
  * reason: transition to ESM.
  * migrate: import the `Uppy` class by default and/or use named exports for everything else.
```

  * reason: transition to ESM
  * migrate: use named imports

#### `@uppy/thumbnail-generator`

* Remove `rotateImage`, `protect`, and `canvasToBlob` from plugin prototype.
  * reason: internal usage only
  * migrate: use exposed options only

## Migrate from Companion 3.x to 4.x

### Minimum required Node.js version is v14.20.0

Aligning with the Node.js [Long Term Support (LTS) schedule](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) and to use modern syntax features.

### `companion.app()` returns `{ app, emitter }` instead of `app`

Companion 3.x provides the emitter as `companionEmitter` on `app`. As of 4.x, an object is returned
with an `app` property (express middleware) and an `emitter` property (event emitter). This
provides more flexibility in the future and follows best practices.

### Removed compatibility for legacy Custom Provider implementations

[Custom Provider](https://uppy.io/docs/companion/#Adding-custom-providers)
implementations must use the Promise API. The callback API is no longer supported.

> ### Default to no ACL for AWS S3

Reviewer: Speaking of S3, wen should address https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/3944.

### `protocol` sent from Uppy in any `get` request is now required (before it would default to Multipart).

If you use any official Uppy plugins, then no migration is needed. For custom plugins that talk to Companion, make to send along the `protocol` header with a value of `multipart`, `s3Multipart`, or `tus`.

### `emitSuccess` and `emitError` are now private methods on the `Uploader` class.

It’s unlikely you’re using this, but it’s technically a breaking change.
In general, don’t depend on implicitly internal methods, use exposed APIs instead.

### Removed `chunkSize` backwards compatibility for AWS S3 Multipart

`chunkSize` option will now be used as `partSize` in AWS multipart. Before only valid values would be respected. Invalid values would be ignored. Now any value will be passed on to the AWS SDK, possibly throwing an error on invalid values.

### Removed backwards compatibility for `/metrics` endpoint

> TODO @mifi

Author: @mifi please make a suggestion here what this should be

Reviewer 2: Metrics will now always be served under `options.server.path`. Before 4.x, it would be served under the root.

Author: Can you make a code suggestion with a short explanation what metrics are and this comment?

Reviewer 2: The `metrics` option is a boolean flag to tell Companion whether to provide an endpoint `/metrics` with Prometheus metrics. Metrics will now always be served under `options.server.path`. Before v4.x, it would always be served under the root.

E.g. if `{ options: { metrics: true, server: { path: '/companion' } } }`, metrics will now be served under `/companion/metrics`. In v3.x, the metrics would be served under `/metrics` in this case.

To migrate from Robodog to Uppy plugins, go through the [list of plugins](/docs/plugins/) and install and use the ones you need.

### Smaller breaking changes

We also made a couple of changes which are technically breaking, but unlikely to be so for most users (making something internal private, for instance).

#### `@uppy/core`

* Remove `AggregateError` polyfill.
  * reason: it’s supported by most modern browsers and [can be polyfilled by the user](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/3532#discussion_r818602636) if needed.
  * migrate: install a `AggregateError` polyfill or use `core-js`.
* Remove `reset()` method.
  * reason: it’s a duplicate of `cancelAll`, but with a less intention revealing name.
  * migrate: use `cancelAll`.
* Remove backwards compatible exports (static properties on `Uppy`). Exports, such as `debugLogger`, used to also be accesible on the `Uppy` export. This has now been removed.
  * reason: transition to ESM.
  * migrate: import the `Uppy` class by default and/or use named exports for everything else.

> #### `@uppy/aws-s3-multipart`

Reviewer: Do we want to list #3895 here?

the [Pure ESM package](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c)
gist for added information and help on how to do that.

### Robodog is deprecated

Uppy is flexible and extensible through plugins. But the integration code could sometimes be daunting. This is what brought [Robodog](/docs/robodog/) to life. An alternative with the same features, but with a more ergonomic and minimal API.

But, it didn’t come with its own set of new problems:

* It tries to do the exact same, but it looks like a different product
* It’s confusing for users whether they want to use Robodog or Uppy directly.
* Robodog is more ergonomic because it’s limited. When you hit such a limit, you need to refactor everything to Uppy with plugins.
* Documentation is scarce, and the trade offs are unclear
* It’s not marketed, you need to stumble on it in the docs.
* Extra maintenance burden
* Extra hosting effort and costs

This has now led us to deprecating Robodog and embrace Uppy for its strong suits; modularity and flexibility. At the same time, we also introduced something to take away some repetitive integration code: [`@uppy/remote-sources`](/docs/remote-sources).

> To migrate from Robodog to Uppy plugins, go through the [list of plugins](/docs/plugins/) and install and use the ones you need.

Reviewer: It'd be really nice to have a code example showing how one can replicate Robodog, showing how to migrate.

Author: That's what we don't want, I'd say. We actually discourage usage of the CDN bundle, because it includes everything. The same happens in Robodog, it will almost always include more than you need. It's better advice to pick only what you need from the plugins list, rather than recreate it.

I could point to the codesandbox of our dashboard setup for a quick copy paste reference.

Reviewer: That's not my point, I'm saying we need to show what's the migration path for folks who are using Robodog today: something that shows how each Robodog feature can be replicated without it.

### `protocol` sent from Uppy in any `get` request is now required (before it would default to Multipart).

If you use any official Uppy plugins, then no migration is needed. For custom plugins that talk to Companion, make to send along the `protocol` header with a value of `multipart`, `s3Multipart`, or `tus`.

### `emitSuccess` and `emitError` are now private methods on the `Uploader` class.

It’s unlikely you’re using this, but it’s technically a breaking change.
In general, don’t depend on implicitly internal methods, use exposed APIs instead.

### Removed `chunkSize` backwards compatibility for AWS S3 Multipart

`chunkSize` option will now be used as `partSize` in AWS multipart. Before only valid values would be respected. Invalid values would be ignored. Now any value will be passed on to the AWS SDK, possibly throwing an error on invalid values.

### Removed backwards compatibility for `/metrics` endpoint

> TODO @mifi

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `metrics` option is a boolean flag to tell Companion whether to provide an endpoint `/metrics` with Prometheus metrics. Metrics will now always be served under `options.server.path`. Before v4.x, it would always be served under the root.

E.g. if `{ options: { metrics: true, server: { path: '/companion' } } }`, metrics will now be served under `/companion/metrics`. In v3.x, the metrics would be served under `/metrics` in this case.
```

Author: Perfect, thanks.

These cover all the major Uppy versions and how to migrate to them.

## Migrate from Robodog to Uppy plugins

Uppy is flexible and extensible through plugins. But the integration code could sometimes be daunting. This is what brought [Robodog](/docs/robodog/) to life. An alternative with the same features, but with a more ergonomic and minimal API.

But, it didn’t come with its own set of new problems:

* It tries to do the exact same, but it looks like a different product
* It’s confusing for users whether they want to use Robodog or Uppy directly.
* Robodog is more ergonomic because it’s limited. When you hit such a limit, you need to refactor everything to Uppy with plugins.
* Documentation is scarce, and the trade offs are unclear
* It’s not marketed, you need to stumble on it in the docs.
* Extra maintenance burden

> * Extra hosting effort and costs

Reviewer 3: Let's remove the last 4 — they are from our discussion, not real relevant reasons for deprecating Robodog. Documentation, marketing — we could have as well improved that.

> * It tries to do the exact same, but it looks like a different product
> * It’s confusing for users whether they want to use Robodog or Uppy directly.
> * Robodog is more ergonomic because it’s limited. When you hit such a limit, you need to refactor everything to Uppy with plugins.
> * Documentation is scarce, and the trade offs are unclear
> * It’s not marketed, you need to stumble on it in the docs.
> * Extra maintenance burden
> * Extra hosting effort and costs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It tries to do the exact same, but it looks like a different product.
* It’s confusing for users whether they want to use Robodog or Uppy directly.
* Robodog is more ergonomic because it’s limited. When you hit such a limit, you need to refactor everything to Uppy with plugins.
```

import '@uppy/image-editor/dist/style.css'

const {
  COMPANION_URL,
  COMPANION_ALLOWED_HOSTS,
  TRANSLOADIT_SERVICE_URL,
} = import.meta.env

new Uppy()
  .use(Dashboard, {
    inline: true,
    target: '#app',
    showProgressDetails: true,
    proudlyDisplayPoweredByUppy: true,
  })
  .use(RemoteSources, {
    companionUrl: COMPANION_URL,
    companionAllowedHosts: COMPANION_ALLOWED_HOSTS,
  })
  .use(Webcam, {
    target: Dashboard,
    showVideoSourceDropdown: true,
    showRecordingLength: true,
  })
  .use(Audio, {
    target: Dashboard,
    showRecordingLength: true,
  })
  .use(ScreenCapture, { target: Dashboard })
  .use(ImageEditor, { target: Dashboard })
  .use(Transloadit, {
    service: TRANSLOADIT_SERVICE_URL,
    async getAssemblyOptions (file) {
      // This is where you configure your auth key, auth secret, and template ID
      // https://uppy.io/docs/transloadit/#getAssemblyOptions-file
      //
      // It is important to set the secret in production:
      // https://transloadit.com/docs/topics/signature-authentication/
      const response = await fetch('/some-endpoint')
      return response.json()
    },
  })
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Checkout how we did it on [our own Robodog example](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/commit/089aaed615c77bafaf905e291b6b4e82aaeb2f6f).

```

uppy.use(Dropbox, {
  companionUrl: COMPANION_URL,
  companionAllowedHosts: COMPANION_ALLOWED_HOSTS,
})
```

#### `@uppy/aws-s3-multipart`

##### Make `headers` inside the return value of [`prepareUploadParts`](/docs/aws-s3-multipart/#prepareUploadParts-file-partData) part-indexed too.

This is to allow custom headers to be set per part. See this [issue](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/issues/3881) for details.

To migrate: make headers part indexed like `presignedUrls`: `{ "headers": { "1": { "Content-MD5": "foo" } }}`.

##### Remove `client` getter and setter.

It’s internal usage only.

To migrate: use exposed options only.

#### `@uppy/tus/`, `@uppy/aws-s3`, `@uppy/xhr-upload`

Rename `metaFields` option to `allowedMetaFields`. Counter intuitively, `metaFields` is for _filtering_ which `metaFields` to send along with the request, not for adding extra meta fields to a request. As a lot of people were confused by this, and the name overlaps with the [`metaFields` option from Dashboard](/docs/dashboard/#metaFields), we renamed it.

To migrate: use `allowedMetaFields`.

#### `@uppy/react`

Don’t expose `validProps` on the exported components. They are internal usage only.

> To migrate: use exposed options only.

Reviewer: TODO: add info regarding peer deps

#### `@uppy/store-redux`

Remove backwards compatible exports (static properties on `ReduxStore`). Exports, such as `reducer`, used to also be accessible on the `ReduxStore` export. This has now been removed due to the transition to ESM.

To migrate: use named imports.

#### `@uppy/thumbnail-generator`

Remove `rotateImage`, `protect`, and `canvasToBlob` from the plugin prototype. They are internal usage only.

To migrate: use exposed options only.

> 

Reviewer: TODO: add section for `@uppy/vue` peer deps

These cover all the major Uppy versions and how to migrate to them.

## Migrate from Uppy 2.x to 3.x

### Uppy is pure ESM

> Following the footsteps of many packages, we now only ship [ECMAScript Modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) (ESM). Uppy can’t be `require()`’d from CommonJS.
> 
> Before Uppy 3.x, you could use `require` or `import` as we shipped CommonJS:
> 
> <!-- eslint-disable no-restricted-globals -->
> 
> ```js
> const Uppy = require('@uppy/core')
> const Dashboard = require('@uppy/dashboard')
> ```
> 
> Now Uppy can only be `import`’ed:
> 
> ```js
> import Uppy from '@uppy/core'
> import Dashboard from '@uppy/dashboard'
> ```
> 
> Refer to the [Pure ESM package](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c) gist for added information and help.

Reviewer: Some bundlers supports calling `require` on ESM files, let's use more cautious language here.

```suggestion
Following the footsteps of many packages, we now only ship Uppy core and its plugins as
[ECMAScript Modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) (ESM).
On Uppy 2.x, we were shipping CommonJS.

If are already using ESM yourself, or are using the CDN builds, nothing changes for you!

If you are using CommonJS, you might need to add some tooling for everything to work, or you might
want to refactor your codebase to ESM – refer to
the [Pure ESM package](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c)
gist for additional information and help on how to do that.
```

## Migrate from Companion 3.x to 4.x

> ### Minimum required Node.js version is v14.19.0

Author: ```suggestion
### Minimum required Node.js version is v14.20.0
```

> Aligning with the Node.js [Long Term Support (LTS) schedule](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) and to use modern syntax features.

Reviewer: Let's bump it to v14.20.0, as v14.19.0 has a rather serious security issue. Probably not something to address in this PR though, just commenting here to not forget.

### `companion.app()` returns `{ app, emitter }` instead of `app`

> Companion 3.x provides the emitter as `companionEmitter` on `app`. As of 4.x, an object is returned with `app` (express middleware) and `emitter` (event emitter). This provides more flexibility in the future and follows best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Companion 3.x provides the emitter as `companionEmitter` on `app`. As of 4.x, an object is returned
with an `app` property (express middleware) and an `emitter` property (event emitter). This
provides more flexibility in the future and follows best practices.
```

### Removed compatibility for legacy Custom Provider implementations

> [Custom Provider](https://uppy.io/docs/companion/#Adding-custom-providers) implementations must use the Promise API, instead of the callback API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Custom Provider](https://uppy.io/docs/companion/#Adding-custom-providers)
implementations must use the Promise API. The callback API is no longer supported.
```
